website/docs: prepare 2023.3 release notes (#4889)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/releases/2023/v2023.3.md

---
title: Release 2023.3 - SCIM support
slug: "/releases/2023.3"
---

## New features

-   SCIM support

:::info
This feature is still in technical preview, so please report any Bugs you run into on [GitHub](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/issues)
:::

    authentik can now provision users other systems via the SCIM protocol. The provider synchronizes Users, Groups and the user membership. Objects are both synced when they are saved as well as on a schedule in the background.

-   Theming improvements

    -   The custom.css file is now loaded in ShadowDOMs, allowing for much greater customization, as previously it was only possible to style elements outside of the ShadowDOM.
    -   Previously, authentik would automatically switch between dark and light theme based on the users' browsers' settings. This can now be overridden to either force the light or dark theme, per user/group/tenant.

## Upgrading

This release does not introduce any new requirements.

### docker-compose

> Download the docker-compose file for 2023.3 from [here](https://goauthentik.io/version/2023.3/docker-compose.yml). Afterwards, simply run `docker-compose up -d`.

Author: This block is always copied from the template, see https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/main/website/docs/releases/_template.md

### Kubernetes

Update your values to use the new images:

```yaml
image:
    repository: ghcr.io/goauthentik/server
    tag: 2023.3.0
```

> ## Minor changes/fixes

Author: All the changes listed below this point are commit messages/PR titles, just FYI

-   \*: add additional prometheus metrics, remove unusable high entropy metrics
-   blueprints: improve error handling in example flow
-   core: Add `resolve_dns` and `reverse_dns` functions to evaluator (#4769)
-   core: bootstrap email (#4788)
-   core: enforce unique on names where it makes sense (#4866)
-   core: Fix bug causing whitespace only names to raise exception when generating avatars (#4746)
-   core: fix error when creating token without request in context
-   core: Improve service account creation (#4751)
-   events: fix m2m_change events not being logged
-   flows: change default flow stage binding settings (#4784)
-   flows: planner error handling (#4812)
-   internal: fix crash when port 9000 is in use (#4863)

> -   providers: SCIM (#4835)

Author: no, but hence it's also listed on the New changes on the first header, I just like to include noteworthy changes in this list even if they are mentioned above

-   providers/ldap: Improve compatibility with LDAP clients (#4750)
-   providers/ldap: making ldap compatible with synology (#4694)
-   providers/oauth2: fix missing information for Revoked token access events
-   providers/oauth2: OpenID conformance (#4758)
-   providers/proxy: ensure issuer is correct when browser url override is set
-   providers/proxy: strip scheme when comparing redirect URL
-   providers/scim: add option to filter out service accounts, parent group (#4862)
-   providers/scim: customizable externalId, document behavior (#4868)
-   sources/ldap: improve error handling for password complexity (#4780)
-   sources/oauth: fix not all token errors being logged with response
-   sources/plex: fix check_token error unusable if token is empty (#4834)
-   stages/authenticator_sms: fix twilio sending (#4829)
-   stages/user_login: add option to terminate other sessions (#4754)
-   tests/e2e: use example blueprints for testing (#4805)
-   web: fetch custom.css via fetch and add stylesheet (#4804)
-   web: toggle dark/light theme manually (#4876)
-   web/admin: fix chart display with no sources (#4782)

> -   web/admin: set wizard's valid correctly when opened and radio is already selected (#4821)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   web/admin: fix issue with wizard's Next button incorrectly disabled when radio button is already selected (#4821)
```

-   web/admin: workaround for tenant certificate selection being cut off (#4820)

> -   web/elements: add loading spinner for charts, render middle text with css

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   web/elements: add loading spinner for charts, render middle text with CSS
```
